The Scorpion is an uncommunicative creature, secret in his practices
and disagreeable to deal with, so that his history, apart from
anatomical detail, amounts to little or nothing. The scalpel of the
experts has made us acquainted with his organic structure; but no
observer, as far as I know, has thought of interviewing him, with any
sort of persistence, on the subject of his private habits. Ripped up,
after being steeped in spirits of wine, he is very well-known; acting
within the domain of his instincts, he is hardly known at all. And yet
none of the segmented animals is more deserving of a detailed
biography. He has at all times appealed to the popular imagination,
even to the point of figuring among the signs of the zodiac. Fear made
the gods, said Lucretius. Deified by terror, the Scorpion is
immortalized in the sky by a constellation and in the almanac by the
symbol for the month of October.

I made the acquaintance of the Languedocian Scorpion (Scorpio
occitanus, LAT) half a century ago, in the Villeneuve hills, on the far
side of the Rhone, opposite Avignon. When the thrice-blessed Thursday
[1] came, from morning till night I used to turn over the stones in
quest of the Scolopendra, [2] the chief subject of the thesis which I
was preparing for my doctor’s degree. Sometimes, instead of that
magnificent horror, the mighty Myriapod, I would find, under the raised
stone, another and no less unpleasant recluse. It was he. With his tail
turned over his back and a drop of poison gleaming at the end of the
sting, he lay displaying his pincers at the entrance to a burrow.
Br-r-r-r! Have done with the formidable creature! The stone fell back
into its place.

Utterly tired out, I used to return from my excursions rich in
Scolopendræ and richer still in those illusions which paint the future
rose-colour when we first begin to bite freely into the bread of
knowledge. Science! The witch! I used to come home with joy in my
heart: I had found some Centipedes. What more was needed to complete my
ingenuous happiness? I carried off the Scolopendræ and left the
Scorpions behind, not without a secret feeling that a day would come
when I should have to concern myself with them.

Fifty years have elapsed; and that day has come. It behoves me, after
the Spiders, [3] his near neighbours in organization, to cross-examine
my old acquaintance, chief of the Arachnids in our district. It so
happens that the Languedocian Scorpion abounds in my neighbourhood;
nowhere have I seen him so plentiful as on the Sérignan hills, with
their sunny, rocky slopes beloved by the arbutus and the arborescent
heath. There the chilly creature finds a sub-tropical temperature and
also a sandy soil, easy to dig. This is, I think, as far as he goes
towards the north.

His favourite spots are the bare expanses poor in vegetation, where the
rock, outcropping in vertical strata, is baked by the sun and worn by
the wind and rain until it ends by crumbling into flakes. He is usually
found in colonies at quite a distance from one another, as though the
members of a single family, migrating in all directions, were becoming
a tribe. It is not sociability, it is anything but that. Excessively
intolerant and passionately devoted to solitude, they continually
occupy their shelters alone. In vain do I seek them out: I never find
two of them under the same stone; or, to be more accurate, when there
are two, one is engaged in eating the other. We shall have occasion to
see the savage hermit ending the nuptial festivities in this fashion.

The lodging is very rough and ready. Let us turn over the stones, which
are generally flat and fairly large. The Scorpion’s presence is
indicated by a cavity as wide as the neck of a quart bottle and a few
inches deep. In stooping, we commonly see the master of the house on
the threshold of his dwelling, with his pincers outspread and his tail
in the posture of defence. At other times, when he owns a deeper cell,
the hermit is invisible. We have to use a small pocket-trowel to bring
him out into the light of day. Here he is, lifting or brandishing his
weapon. ’Ware fingers!

I take him by the tail with a pair of tweezers and slip him, head
foremost, into a stout paper bag, which will isolate him from the other
prisoners. The whole of my formidable harvest goes into a tin box. In
this way both the collecting and the transport are carried out with
perfect safety.

Before housing my animals, let me briefly describe them. The common
Black Scorpion (Scorpio europæus, LINN.) is known to all. He frequents
the dark holes and corners near our dwelling-places; on rainy days in
autumn he makes his way indoors, sometimes even under our bed-clothes.
The odious animal causes us more fright than damage. Although not rare
in my present abode, the results of its visits are never in the least
serious. The weird beast, overrated in reputation, is repulsive rather
than dangerous.

Much more to be feared and much less well-known generally is the
Languedocian Scorpion, resident in the Mediterranean provinces. Far
from seeking our habitations, he lives apart, in the untilled
solitudes. Beside the Black Scorpion he is a giant who, when
full-grown, measures three to three and a half inches in length. His
colouring is the yellow of faded straw.

The tail, which is really the animal’s abdomen, is a series of five
prismatic segments, shaped like little kegs whose staves meet in
undulating ridges resembling strings of beads. Similar cords cover the
arms and fore-arms of the nippers and divide them into long facets.
Others meander along the back like the joints of a cuirass whose seams
are adorned with a freakish milled edging. These bead-like
protuberances give the Scorpion’s armour a fierce and robustious
appearance which is characteristic of the Languedocian Scorpion. It is
as though the animal were fashioned out of chips hewn with an adze.